Now it's time to set up our Greetr
object and this will be a bit tricky
because we want to set it up
the way that jQuery is set up.
We're going to imitate jQuery's structure.
What I want to do is set up my Greetr so
that it generates an object so
it'll be a function,
a function that generates an object.
But what I'd like to do whenever I use
Greetr is I'd like to just say G$, and
then pass firstName, lastName, and
maybe language, and that's it.
And what it gives me back is an object,
kind of like jQuery does.
So, I don't want to have
to say new all the time.
So, let's do that now.
How can I set up
a function that does this?
Let's get started,
we'll set up a function,
a firstName, a lastName, and a language.
And now I want it, instead of being
a function constructor, so I have to
use new, I want it to return the results
of a different function constructor.
Maybe like a .init, just like jQuery did.
You wanna try that yourself?
Try to see if you can create
a separate function constructor,
Greetr.init, that takes the same
firstName, lastName, and language.
And then have this function right here,
this Greetr function
return a new object created with
that other function constructor.
Go back and
look at it on jQuery if you want to again.
Think about it a bit.
At least give it a try.
All right, ready?
Return new something.
Well, I'm going to need a Greetr and
I'm going to do a property on my Greetr.
It's gonna take the same thing.
So it's return new, so
I'm going to return and
then use a function constructor
to generate the object.
That way I don't have to always setup
the object with the new keyword.
Then I'll do Greetr.init and
this is the actual function.
And notice that it's okay that I'm
setting this up after this because
this won't be called until
I actually use Greetr.
So by the time this is actually called,
this will all be set up.
All this other code will be already run.
All right, so I'm going to set
up some default properties.
Do you wanna try that?
Set up some default values for
firstName, lastName, and language.
How would you do that?
If I pass in firstName I want
to use the firstName I pass in.
But if I don't, I want to set a default.
And I want to add firstName, lastName and
language to this empty object that's
created by new so I need to use this.
Give it a thought.
How can I set up my new object,
because that's what I'm doing?
I'm doing a function constructor so
I'm building an object,
building this new object that's going
to be returned by the greeter function.
All right, well I'm gonna use
my nice self, just to be safe.
Self is the same as this, so
that I don't have to worry about
what this variable points to later.
And I'll set up,
I'll build my object because this, and
now self points to the empty object
created by the new operator.
And I passed in firstName so I'll use or
and then I'll default to an empty string.
And I'll build my object again,
the new property and one more.
What should be our default language?
Let's say English.
En for English.
All right, so that's it.
I have a function constructor that builds
an object and gives it three properties
and sets its value if you pass something
into the function constructor,
otherwise set some defaults.
Now what about the prototype?
Well I want to use Greetr.prototype
because it looks nicer in my code and
that's just gonna be an empty object for
now.
And here is where I'll put any
methods that I want to use
inside my object that's
returned from Greetr.
But in order to do that that means
that this object here that's created
needs to point to this as its prototype.
Remember how jQuery did that?
Well any object returned from this
function constructor will point where for
its prototype.
Where will an object
created from this function,
which is Greetr.init,
where will an object created from here,
where will its prototype,
its proto property be pointing at?
Remember, those names
are a little confusing.
Greetr.init.protoype, this is a function.
Any object created with this
function as a function constructor,
that's where the proto
property is pointing.
So all my objects are going to point here.
If I call my Greetr when it's ready,
and this returns an object,
then It'll return an object by
calling this function constructor.
So the .prototype
property of this function
is where that new object
will point as its proto.
Remember all that?
Go back and look at that,
if you need to again.
Can be a little confusing just
because it's called prototype.
But it really is just where objects
that are being created are pointing at.
And I want this to be the prototype
of all objects created from this.
So a jQuery did was this.
Remember?
It just says any objects created
with this function should
actually point here for
its prototype chain.
Got it?
So now I can cleanly put my properties and
methods on here.
It just looks a little better.
All right now I want to expose
my Greetr to the outside world.
I want to attach it to my global object so
that I can call this function anywhere.
Because it's sitting on the global object.
We're not gonna worry about checking
to see whether it exists or not.
We're just going to attach
it to the global object.
And oh, we also want that nice alias, G$,
so I don't have to type Greetr
all the time when I'm using this.
How do we do that?
How do we add it to the global object?
Try it yourself, and
then alias it with G$.
How do we do that?
Well, to make something available
everywhere I need to attach it to
the global object.
I passed it in to this function
that's being invoked..
So it's called global
cuz I passed in window.
And I don't want my code inside of here
to think about whether it's a window or
not so we're just gonna call it global.
And maybe someday I could enhance
this call to check whether window or
not exists.
All right so global.Greetr because global
is what I passed into this function.
And, I also want an alias, global.G$,
and I am going to set that equal to what?
I'm exposing the Greetr function, so
it's just Greetr, this Greetr right here,
which is a function.
So, on the global object,
these two names will point to this value.
Got it?
So I have the basic setup of my object and
my prototype.
So if I go to my app,
I can already say var,
let's just say g = G$('John',
'Doe'), and I'm not gonna pass a language.
And let's console.log(g).
And let's refresh.
Hey, look.
I have an object with firstName John,
lastName, Doe,
default language, and its of type
Greetr.init, which makes sense,
because just like jQuery,
I'm returning a new Greetr.init.
But its prototype is pointing here so
I can add my other methods and
properties right here.
Got that.
We're well on our way.
Let's add some functionality.